{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-BoldItalic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Project name: Enabling customer-centricity
\f1\b0 \
\

\f0\b Summary of the project:
\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The client, one of Sweden\'92s largest electricity distributors with 900,000 customers, sought to become more customer-centric after growing pressure from rising electricity prices and increasing customer expectations. Historically focused on operations rather than user needs, the company faced fragmented insights, high support costs, and limited self-service options. Johan led the initiative to create the company\'92s first customer journey and build the frameworks and methodologies to manage customer experience. He introduced new ways of working, scaled the CX team, and embedded design thinking across the organization. The effort delivered strong results, raising CES from 4.2 to 6.35.\
\
\

\f3\b Understanding the client needs:
\f2\b0 \
When joining the assignment, only one thing was for certain - the client wanted to work with customer journey maps. However, it was quickly realized that in order for this team to be successful, it needed stronger alignment in other parts of the organization. To tackle this, Johan took lead in planning, and later on executing the work needed for the prioritized customer journey. Simultaneously, an internal research was conducted with other teams in the organization to understand and align how this new way of working would fit in the existing process. Interviews, workshops, presentations were key tools to facilitate and communicate the change the team saw was needed.\
\
\

\f3\b Process steps / some key deliveries
\f2\b0 \
\
Defining the customer life cycle\
In addition to mapping the prioritized customer journey, Johan and his team started mapping out what other key customer journeys that exist at the client. This gave the team a holistic view of what areas needed the most support and was used as a tool to discuss with concerned stakeholders on what other customer journey should be prioritized.\
\
Scaling the team\
Two months into the assigment, things were clear. The team had established traction in the organization, and more stakeholders requested their journeys to be next. With this, Johan and his team suggested two additional designers to join the team in their efforts. This was aligned with the manager as a short term solution, where later on, Johan supported in the recruitment of permanent employees to the team.\
\
Workshop facilitation\
During his time, Johan facilitated internal team workshops, as well as external, with topics ranging from \'93Outcome vs Output\'94, \'93How to prioritize findings\'94 & many more. Some workshops were done in connection to his customer journey mapping, and others with purpose to educate and inspire the organization in design methods and customer-centricity.\
\
Hands on research\
In his research, Johan went into depth internally with involved parties to establish an 
\f4\i\b \strokec2 assumed
\f2\i0\b0 \strokec2  customer experience. This was done through contextual interviews, where in between sessions he continuously drafted an assumed customer journey. To validate, or invalidate these initial assumptions, he conducted contextual interviews with end customers, as well as involved parties outside of the organization.\
\
Produce customer journey\
Johan produced the first customer journey, covering the needs, expectations, pains & gains - and how all of that was connected to internal processes in the organization. Mapped out areas for improvements were later prioritized, and implemented in collaboration with involved parties. \
\
Within a year, key metrics saw massive improvements in term of customer efforts for the selected customer journey.\
\
\
\

\f3\b Key deliveries
\f2\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Created a comprehensive framework for the B2C/B2B customer lifecycle, detailing key customer journeys and pinpointing validated opportunities for enhancement.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Fostered a customer-centric approach and facilitated cross-team collaboration, leading to lower support costs and increased user satisfaction.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Launched focused work packages designed to improve core customer-facing digital products while aligning with established KPIs, underpinned by valuable research insights.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Produced and facilitated improvements of the customer journey for solar panels customers, raising CES (Customer Effort Score) from 4.2 to 6.35.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \strokec2 \
Approximately 12 months into the assignment, the team had grown and was now staffed with permanent recruits. This created an opportunity for Johan to take on the role as Product designer - and lead the re-design of their core Business 2 Partner platform. More on that to come...}